- We're going to spend a considerable amount of time,
talking about SQL injection,
and how to prevent it.
This attack vector,
continues to be a major issue across the industry,
but it's rather easily mitigated especially in Java.
The situation that causes SQL injection,
is very straightforward.
You start with the SQL statement,
that accepts at least one variable.
This can be as simple WHERE clause variable,
or a VALUES clause variable for instance.
The SQL statement, when created in code,
must leverage string concatenation or formatting,
to insert the input into the SQL statement.
Malicious input can then be entered,
into the system which repurposed the SQL statement itself.
The simplest example on a string variable,
is to add an OR clause to your input,
and then a statement that will always return true.
This will return all data from the table,
in an injectable code path,
based on the other where clauses that are available.
So I'm going to walk through an example of code
that would be considered susceptible.
So what I have for you here is a method.
And in the first line of the method we create
is SQL statement.
And you'll notice that we're doing string concatenation,
to insert the input directly into our WHERE clause.
Now we go through and recreate a connection,
we create a statement from that,
and then we execute the SQL statement.
If I insert some value,
there will always make username return true,
I will actually dump all of the data from the user table.
So preventing this in Java is very easy,
because it's built into the language itself.
The solution is to use the concept of prepared statements,
instead of statements themselves.
Because this remediates the risk of SQL injection,
the SQL statement is created with a question mark
for all variables,
instead of manually concatenating the string.
The variables are then attached to the statement,
instead of directly to the SQL query string.
Then here's that same example from before,
only doing so with a prepared statement,
you will see in the first line of our method
that we create our SQL statement,
and we put a question mark placeholder
for our username variable,
within create our connection as we did before,
and a statement is created using that SQL.
But now, I set a string value,
on the statement, using my input,
and you'll notice that it's a parametrized index.
It's not a zero based index as an array,
but that's okay,
because we can just count from one instead of zero.
The idea here, however,
is that everything passed into the input string,
will be treated completely as a string.
So in the case of passing in the OR 1=1,
it's now going to look for a username,
that equals whatever the input was supposed to be,
in addition to the OR clause was added,
and it's going to treat it as one entire string,
escaping all of those values.
So now when this is executed,
it actually should return zero data elements.